Systems performing category A functions shall be protected from consequential physical effects caused by faults and normal actions within redundant parts of those systems.
Systems performing category A functions shall be protected from consequential physical effects caused by faults and normal actions within systems of a lower category.
The faults considered shall include those internaI to the I&C system and its power supply as well as those that occur as a result of events external to the I&C systems.
Failures and mal-operations in the non-category A systems shall cause no change in response, drift, accuracy, sensitivity to noise, or other characteristics of the category A system which might impair the ability of the system to perform its safety functions.
Where signals are extracted from category B or C systems for use in lower category systems, isolation devices may not be required; however, good engineering practices should be followed to prevent the propagation of faults. 
In cases where systems performing category B functions need to take on the aspects of category A systems due to the functions performed, isolation shall be applied.
Systems performing category B functions shall be protected from consequential physical effects caused by faults and normal actions within redundant parts of those systems.
Systems performing category B functions shall be protected from consequential physical effects caused by faults and normal actions within systems of a lower category.
The faults considered shall include those internaI to the I&C system and its power supply, but may exclude those that occur as a result of events external to the I&C systems.
Where physical separation is required, prevention of failure propagation shall be considered for failures occuring simultaneously to multiple systems components as a consequence of PIEs; between systems of the same safety category;; between redundant safety category.
Where signals are extracted from category A system equipment and provided to systems of a lower category, the transmission of these signais shall be through isolation devices that are included within the category A system. 
The isolation device shall be such that failures or conditions at their output terminals (which are connected to the lower category system) cannot prevent the safety action of the category A system or sub-system to which the isolation device is connected. 
As an example, a circuit at category A may be monitored for alarms by a relay in that circuit at that category whose contocts provide alarms at a lower category. The electrical isolation provided shall meet the requirements of 5.3.2.
Temporary connections for maintenance to systems performing category A functions without isolation devices shall be permitted provided that they are connected ta only a single redundancy at any given time, that they are is connected after use, and that the system is capable of withstanding a fault introduced through failure or use of the connection.
The design of the I&C architecture shall decompose the entire I&C into sufficient systems and equipment to meet the requirements on independence of the functions in different lines of defence.
The design of the I&C architecture shall decompose the entire I&C into sufficient systems and equipment to meet the requirements on adequate separation of the systems of different classes.
The design of the I&C architecture shall decompose the entire I&C into sufficient systems and equipment to meet the requirements on fulfilment of the constraints on the physical separation and electrical isolation arising from the environmental and layout constraints, hazard analysis, and constraints from start-up activities, testing, maintenance and operation (see 5.2.4).
The effects of less than minimum separation or the absence of electrical isolation between the non-Class 1E circuits and the Class 1E circuits or associated circuits shall be analyzed to demonstrate that Class 1E circuits are not degraded below an acceptable level or the non-Class 1E circuits shall be associated circuits.
Non-Class 1E instrumentation signal and control circuits (see IEEE Std 690-1984 [14]) are not required to be physically separated or electrically isolated from associated circuits provided that (a) the non-Class 1E circuits are not routed with associated cables of a redundant division and (b) the non-Class 1E circuits are analyzed to demonstrate that Class 1E circuits are not degraded below an acceptable level. As part of the analysis, consideration shall be given to potential energy and identiﬁcation of the circuits involved.